SPENT THE DAY TRYING TO DERAIL A
SENATE PLAN TO REOPEN GOVERNMENT
AND AVOID DEFAULT, BUT THERE'S
NO DEAL YET.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN ILL.FI
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, THE SUPREME COURT
WEIGHS WHETHER VOTERS CAN BAN
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PROGRAMS.
>> Ifill: AND JIM LEHRER IS BACK
TO DISCUSS HIS NEW NOVEL ABOUT
THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION.
KENNEDY.
>> WHAT IF THEY HAD LEFT, AND
WOULD JOHN F. KENNEDY HAVE DIED
ON NOVEMBER 22nd.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: OUR LEAD STORY
TONIGHT: WITH THE CLOCK TICKING
TOWARD THE HOUR THE DEBT LIMIT
IS BREACHED, AND THE GOVERNMENT
STILL SHUT DOWN, A BIT OF
OPTIMISM HERE IN WASHINGTON ALL
BUT EVAPORATED, AND INTERNAL
DISAGREEMENT AMONG REPUBLICANS
MORPHED INTO DISARRAY.
NEWSHOUR CONGRESSIONAL
CORRESPONDENT KWAME HOLMAN HAS
OUR REPORT.
>> THE FOCUS HAD BEEN ON
BIPARTISAN NEGOTIATIONS IN THE
SENATE.
WHEN HOUSE REPUBLICANS CAME OUT
OF A CLOSED DOOR MEETING THIS
MORNING.
>> THERE WILL BE NO DECISIONS
ABOUT EXACTLY WHAT WE WILL GO
BUT WE WILL CONTINUE TO WORK
WITH OUR MEMBERS ON BOTH SIDES
OF THEISL AE TO TRY TO MAKE SURE
THERE IS NO ISSUE MUCH DEFAULT
AND TO GET OUR GOVERNMENT
THROUGH.
>> THE HOUSE REPUBLICANS DID
FLOAT A VOTE, THAT MUCH MIRRORS
THE SENATE PLAN.
THERE WAS TALK OFTEN DELAYING A
TAX ON MEDICAL QUIESES THAT
HELPS FUND THE HEALTH CARE LAW,
AND LAWMAKERS AND TOP
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS.
BUT A NUMBER OF CONSERVATIVES
VOICED DOWNS.
SENATE MAJORITY LEADER HARRY
REID ACCUSED AN ATTACK ON
BIPARTISANSHIP.
>> A BILL THAT CAN'T PAT THE
SENATE.
CAN'T PASS THE SENATE AND WON'T
PASS THE SENATE.
>> HOUSE DEMOCRATIC LEADER NANCY
PELOSI ECHOED THE CRITICISM AND
FROM THE OTHER SIDE OF THE
AVENUE, JAY CARNEY JOINED IN.
>> WHIT COMES TO RALLYING TEA
PARTY MEMBERS THAT IS NOT
ACCEPTABLE.
>> IT WAS ALL TOO MUCH FOR JOHN
McCAIN OF ARIZONA.
HE FAULTED DEMOCRATS TODAY.
>> TO CATEGORICALLY REJECT WHAT
THE HOUF
THINK HE'S PRETTY COURAGEOUS IN
WHAT HE'S DOING IN MY VIEW IS
NOT SERVING THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
SO LET'S STOP THIS.
LET'S STOP IT, SIT DOWN,
CONSIDER THE SPEAKER'S PROPOSAL,
GET OUR PROPOSAL DONE.
AND THEN, GET THIS RESOLVED,
WHICH WE CAN DO IN THE NEXT 24
HOURS.
>> BEFORE THE HOUSE REPUBLICAN
PLAN EMERGED, SENATE LEADERS
FROM BOTH PARTIES SAID THEY WERE
MAKING PROGRESS ON THEIR PLAN.
AIDS SAY THEY HOPED TO SEAL AN
AGREEMENT BEFORE THE DAY WAS
OUT.
BUT THINGS SEEMED TO GRIND TO A
HALT.
DICK DURBIN ANNOUNCED THE
NEGOTIATIONS IN THE SENATE WERE
SUSPENDED PENDING SOMETHING MORE
ACCEPTABLE FROM THE HOUSE.
STILL, A VOTE TO END THE
STANDOFF, DROPS THE TAX ON
MEDICAL DEVICES.
MEANWHILE, THE PARTIAL
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN ENTERED ITS
THIRD WEEK AND THE DEADLINE IS
TWO DAYS AWAY.
THE TREASURY DEPARTMENT WARNS,
COME THURSDAY, IT WILL NO LONGER
BE ABLE TO.
>> FEDERAL GOVERNMENT'S TRIPLE A
CREDIT RATING UNDER REVIEW.
THE LATEST ON WHERE THINGS ARE
STAND WE'RE JOINED BY CARRIE
BUDOFF BROWN OF POLITICO.
CARRIE THIS IS CHANGING AS WE
SPEAK, WHAT IS THE LATEST?
>> THE LATEST IS THE HOUSE BILL
APPEARS TO BE FALLING APART.
THEY HAVE DELAYED THE VOTE
INDEFINITELY, WHICH MEANS THE
SUPPORT IS NOT AT THE HOUSE.
THIS COULD BE LOOKED AT AS A
SETBACK OF SORTS, BUT BANKING
THAT THE HOUSE IS FALLING SHORT,
HOPING THAT CLEARS THE WAY FOR
THE REID-McCONNELL DEAL THAT
WAS COMING TOGETHER LAST NIGHT,
HOPING THAT WILL MOVE FORWARD.
WE DON'T KNOW IF THAK THAT'S
EXACTLY WHAT WILL THAT HAPPEN
RIGHT NOW BUT THAT'S WHAT
DEMOCRATS HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR,
HOPING THAT SPEAKER BOEHNER
CAN'T PULL OUT THAT BILL AND GO
BACK TO WHERE THEY WERE
ESSENTIALLY 24 HOURS AGO.
>> WHAT HAPPENED TO MAKE THEM GO
FROM ONE PLAN TO ANOTHER IN THE
ARCH?
>> THIS HAS BEEN THE PATTERN FOR
THIS HOUSE REPUBLICAN
CONFERENCE.
YOU HAVE A GROUP OF HARD CORE
ROOBLES, TE REPUBLICANS, TEAPT
REEBILITY, THE CONCISIONS ON
OBAMACARE JUST WASN'T ENOUGH TO
GET THEM ON BOARD.
AND JUST ATTACHING MORE THAN
THAT WOULD MAKE IT UNPALATABLE
TO THE SENATE.
IT'S BECOME CLEAR THAT THERE'S
NOT ANYTHING OUT THERE THAT'S
GOING TO BE COMING OUT OF THE
HOUSE THAT WILL APPEASE THOSE
DEMOCRATS AND YOU KNOW THE FAR
RIGHT TEA PARTY CAUCUS AND YOU
HAVE THE SITUATION WHERE THAT
SPIEKER BOEHNER IS IN TONIGHT
WHERE HE IS UNABLE TO PASS
ANYTHING THROUGH THE HOUSE
WITHOUT SOME DEMOCRATIC SUPPORT,
AND MINORITY LEADER PELOSI HAS
SAID SHE WILL HAVE 100% OF HER
MEMBERS SLOATING AGAINST ANY
KIND OF BILL COMING OUT OF THE
HOUSE AT LEAST IN THIS FORM AND
THAT LEAVES IF SPEAKER SHORT ON
HIS SIDE OF THE ARIEL.
>>Woodruff: THE SPEAKER WILL NOT
PUT SOMETHING FORWARD THAT WILL
DEPEND ON DEMOCRATIC VOTES OVER
THE TOP, HE WANTS SOMETHING HIS
REPUBLICANS CAN PASS?
>> AT THIS POINT THAT IS HIS
POSITION.
BUT YOU KNOW TOMORROW IF
WASHINGTON WAKES UP AND THERE'S
NO SOLUTION THE ONLY HOPE FOR
THE WHITE HOUSE FOR THE
PRESIDENT IS THAT THE SPEAKER
BACKS OFF THAT POSITION.
THAT THE SENATE CAN MOVE
SOMETHING THROUGH THEIR CHAMBER
WITH A BROAD BIPARTISAN SUPPORT
AND THAT PUTS THE HOUSE IN A
POSITION WHERE SPEAKER BOEHNER
HAS TO ACCEPT IT.
THAT'S HAPPENED BEFORE AND
THEY'RE HOPING FOR A REPEAT.
>>Woodruff: CARRIE, HOW DO YOU
DESCRIBE THE SENSE OF THE PEOPLE
YOU'RE TALKING TO?
ARE THEY WORRIED?
ARE THEY CONFIDENT THIS IS GOING
TO GET FIXED?
>> I SPENT A DAY AT THE WHITE
HOUSE, TODAY THERE WAS A PERIOD
OF FRUSTRATION, THEY HAD WASTED
ANOTHER 24 HOURS.
IF THINGS DO GET MOVING
TOMORROW, THEY DON'T PASS WHAT
THEY NEED TO PASS.
THE BREACH OF THE DEBT CEILING,
THEIR ONLY HOPE IS THAT THE
SENATE GETS MOVING.
THEY ARE HOPING FOR A BETTER
ENDING.
>>Woodruff: WELL, I THINK THE
COUNTRY MAY BE, TOO.
CARRIE BUDOFF BROWN, THANK YOU.
>> THANKS, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: IN OTHER NEWS, THE
NEGATIVE TURN OF EVENTS IN
WASHINGTON PUT WALL STREET BACK
IN A SELLING MOOD.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 133 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,168.
THE NASDAQ FELL 21 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3794.
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION AT PUBLICLY
FUNDED UNIVERSITIES WAS BACK
BEFORE THE SUPREME COURT TODAY.
THE CASE INVOLVED A VOTER-
APPROVED MEASURE IN MICHIGAN
THAT BLOCKS THE CONSIDERATION OF
RACE IN COLLEGE ADMISSIONS.
WE'LL HAVE MUCH MORE ON THIS,
RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
A LIBYAN MAN PLEADED NOT GUILTY
IN NEW YORK TODAY, TO PLANNING
THE BOMBING OF TWO U.S.
EMBASSIES IN EAST AFRICA.
THE 1998 ATTACKS KILLED MORE
THAN 220 PEOPLE.
ABU ANAS AL-LIBI WAS CAPTURED
EARLIER THIS MONTH BY DELTA
FORCE COMMANDOS IN A RAID IN
LIBYA.
HE WAS INTERROGATED ON A U.S.
NAVY SHIP FOR A WEEK BEFORE
BEING BROUGHT TO MANHATTAN.
THERE'S YET ANOTHER REVELATION
ABOUT SURVEILLANCE BY THE
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY.
THE "WASHINGTON POST" REPORTED
TODAY THE N.S.A. HAS COLLECTED
MILLIONS OF CONTACT LISTS FROM
E-MAIL AND ONLINE CHATS,
INCLUDING THE RECORDS OF MANY
AMERICANS.
THE REPORT CITED DOCUNTSME
LEAKED BY FORMER N.S.A.
CONTRACTOR EDWARD SNOWDEN.
NEW NEGOTIATIONS OPENED TODAY ON
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
THERE WAS GUARDED OPTIMISM ABOUT
MAKING PROGRESS, BUT NO
IMMEDIATE BREAKTHROUGH.
THE NEWSHOUR'S CHIEF FOREIGN
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
REPORTS.
Woodruff: TO END THE STALEMATE
OVER ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM AT AN
HOUR-LONG SESSION IN GENEVA WITH
THE U.S. AND FIVE OTHER POWERS.
DIPLOMATS SAID FOREIGN MINISTER
USED POWERPOINT TO LAY OUT
IRAN'S VISION OF HOW TO ASSURE
THE WEST THAT IRAN'S PROGRAM IS
ONLY FOR PEACEFUL ENERGY USE AND
RELIEF FROM CRUSHING
INTERNATIONAL SANCTIONS IN
RETURN.
IRAN'S DEPUTY FOREIGN MINISTER
SPEAKING AFTERWARDS GAVE NO
DETAILS BUT SUGGESTED IRAN WANTS
THE AGREEMENT ON A SHAPE OF A
FINAL DEAL BEFORE TAKING INTERIM
REQUESTS.
>> WE WANT TO SEE A SPECIFIC
TIME FRAME FROM BOTH SIDES FOR
THE IMPLEMENTATION OF NEXT STEPS
THAT THE PARTIES HAVE TO TAKE.
WE ARE LOOKING FOR AN UNDER
RESULT AND A CONCLUSION.
WE NO LONGER WANT TO TAKE STEPS
IN THE DARK OR DEAL WITH
UNCERTAINTIES.
>> UP TO NOW IRAN HAS REFUSED TO
STOP ENRICHING URANIUM TO CLOSE
TO STAGE, KATHERINE ASHTON SAYS
IT'S TIME TO SEE TANGIBLE
RESULTS INCLUDING GREATER ACCESS
TO IRAN'S ENRICHMENT FACILITIES.
>> WE HAVE A PROPOSAL ON THERE
TABLE SPECIFICALLY ON THE
CONFIDENCE BUILDING MEASURES BUT
THE CONFIDENCE BUILDING MEASURE
HAS TO COME FROM THE IRANIAN
SIDE, IT IS THE IRANIANS WHO WE
BELIEVE IN BREACH OF THEIR
INTERNATIONAL OBLIGATIONS.
>> AT THE U.N. LAST MONTH AND
NOW, HASAN HOWFN.
>> NO ONE DESPITE THE POSITIVE
SIGNS THAT WE'VE SEEN NO ONE
SHOULD EXPECT A GRAIK THROUGH
OVERNIGHT.
THERE BUT THIS EVENING U.S. AND
IRANIAN NEGOTIATING TEAMS DID
MEET ONE ON ONE.
MEETINGS CONCLUDE TOMORROW.
>> IN AFGHANISTAN TODAY,
>> Woodruff: IN AFGHANISTAN
TODAY, A CLOSE CONFIDANT OF
PRESIDENT HAMID KARZAI WAS
ASSASSINATED IN A BOMBING AT  A
MOSQUE.
ARSALLAH JAMAL HAD BEEN GOVERNOR
OF LOGAR PROVINCE.
THE BOMB WAS PLANTED IN A
MICROPHONE STAND.
IT EXPLODED AS JAMAL WAS
DELIVERING A SPEECH TO
WORSHIPPERS TO MARK THE MUSLIM
HOLIDAY OF EID AL-ADHA.
AROUND THE WORLD, MILLIONS OF
MUSLIMS TOOK PART IN SERVICES
AND RITUALS ON THIS HOLIDAY.
THERE WERE SPECIAL PRAYERS FROM
THE ARAB WORLD AND AFRICA TO
EUROPE AND THE U.S.
SOME PEOPLE ALSO SLAUGHTERED
LIVESTOCK AS PART OF THE
"FESTIVAL OF SACRIFICE," TO GIVE
MEAT TO THE POOR.
AND IN SAUDI ARABIA, MUSLIMS
TAKING PART IN THE ANNUAL HAJJ
PILGRIMAGE THREW STONES AT WALLS
REPRESENTING SATAN.
THE RITUAL SYMBOLIZES THE
REJECTION OF SIN.
POWAERFUL EARTHQUAKE IN THE
CENTRAL PHILIPPINES KILLED MORE
THAN 90 PEOPLE TODAY.
IT REGISTERED A 7.2 MAGNITUDE,
AND WAS CENTERED ON THE ISLAND
OF BOHOL, BENEATH CARMEN CITY.
MANY SMALL BUILDINGS COLLAPSED
AND AREA ROADS WERE DAMAGED,
HAMPERING RESCUE OPERATIONS.
THE COUNTRY'S OLDEST CHURCH, A
16th-CENTURY BASILICA IN CEBU,
LOST ITS BELL TOWER.
A TOP VATICAN OFFICIAL--= WIDELY
BLAMED FOR NOT PREVENTING A
SERIES OF SCANDALS-- HAS
FORMALLY STEPPED DOWN.
CARDINAL TARCISIO BERTONE LEFT
HIS POST AS SECRETARY OF STATE
TODAY.
DURING HIS TENURE, THE VATICAN
STRUGGLED WITH SEXUAL ABUSE BY
PRIESTS AND THE LEAK OF POPE
BENEDICT'S PAPERS, AMONG OTHER
THINGS.
POPE FRANCIS HAS VOWED TO
OVERHAUL THE PAPAL
ADMINISTRATION.
ALSO AHEAD ON THE NEWSHOUR,
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION RETURNS TO
THE SUPREME COURT; HOW THE BOND
MARKET IS RESPONDING TO A
POSSIBLE DEFAULT; TRAINING
TEACHERS TO BE BETTER EDUCATORS;
A MEDAL OF HONOR FOR BRAVERY AND
HUMANITY ON THE BATTLEFIELD; AND
JIM LEHRER ON HIS NEW NOVEL.
NEWSHOUR REGULAR MARICA COYLE OF
>> Ifill: THE DEBATE OVER
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION RETURNED TO
THE SUPREME COURT TODAY, THIS
TIME IN THE FORM OF A CHALLENGE
TO A MICHIGAN LAW THAT WOULD BAN
ITS USE AT PUBLIC UNIVERSITIES.
WE BEGIN OUR COVERAGE WITH
NEWSHOUR REGULAR MARCIA COYLE OF
THE "NATIONAL LAW JOURNAL."
SHE WAS IN THE COURTROOM TODAY.
AS ALWAYS MARCIA, WAS THIS
CHALLENGE TODAY REALLY ABOUT
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION OR WAS IT
ABOUT THE PROCESS THAT MICHIGAN
USED TO TRY TO BAN IT?
>> IT WAS REALLY ABOUT THE
PROCESS.
BUT FIRST A LITTLE CONTEXT.
THE SUPREME COURT HAS RESTRICTED
ITS USE.
IT SAYS WHEN GOVERNMENT USES
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION OR RACIAL
PREFERENCES IT MUST HAVE A
COMPELLING INTEREST FOR THAT AND
THEY MUST BE NARROWLY TAILORED
TO ACHIEVE THAT INTEREST.
ONE OF THE INTERESTS THAT THE
SUPREME COURT HAS UPHELD AS A
COMPELLING INTEREST IS
DIVERSITY.
THIS CASE IS A LITTLE DIFFERENT
FROM THE CASES WE'VE TALKED
ABOUT IN THE PAST.
>> 2003 AND 2006 INVOLVING
MICHIGAN AND TEXAS BEFORE.
>> YES, THAT IS HOW THOSE
UNIVERSITIES WERE USING RACIAL
PREFERENCE.
THIS IS ABOUT WHETHER VOTERS CAN
PASS THE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT TO THEIR STATE
CONSTITUTION PROHIBITING THE USE
OF RACIAL PREFERENCES.
>> TAKE US INSIDE THE COURTROOM,
JUSTICE SOTO-MAYER SAYS THIS
GIVES AWAY THE OPPORTUNITY TO
USE RACIAL DIVERSITY.
>> THE VOTERS HAD RESTRUCTURED
THE POLITICAL PROCESS WITHIN THE
UNIVERSITY TO THE DISADVANTAGE
OF MINORITIES, AND THE ONLY WAY
TO REALLY EXPLAIN THAT IS SORT
OF A HYPOTHETICAL.
SAY I GRADUATE FROM THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND I
WANT THE UNIVERSITY TO GIVE
PREFERENCES TO MY CHILDREN AND
THE CHILDREN OF OTHER GRADUATES.
I CAN GO AND I CAN LOBBY THE
PRESIDENT, I CAN LOBBY THE BOARD
OF REGENTS TO MAKE THAT CHANGE
IN POLICY.
BUT IF I'M IN THE MINORITY AND I
WANT THE UNIVERSITY TO GIVE A
PREFERENCE ON THE BASIS OF MY
RACE I CAN'T DO THAT.
I HAVE TO CHANGE THE MICHIGAN
CONSTITUTION BEFORE I CAN EVEN
APPROACH THEM.
SO THIS LOWER APPELLATE COURT
SAID, WAS RIGGING THE POLITICAL
PROCESS AND THAT VIOLATES EQUAL
PROTECTION.
>> WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN PREFERENCE FOR LEGACY
ALUMS AND PREFERENCES ON RACE?
IS IT SINGULARLY ABOUT RACE?
>> IT IS ABOUT RACE AND THE
EQUAL PROTECTION CLAUSE.
IN THE ARGUMENTS TODAY THE
MICHIGAN SLIT OR THE GENERAL
DEFENDING THE VOTERS AMENDMENT
SAID BASICALLY THE SUPREME COURT
HAS NEVER SAID YOU MUST USE
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION OR RACIAL
PREFERENCES.
IT INVITES THE VOTERS TO SOME
DAY GET BEYOND THE USE OF RACE.
THAT'S WHAT MICHIGAN VOTERS WERE
TRYING TO DO, GET BEYOND THE
RACE AND ADOPT RACE KNEW TRAIL
MEANS OF ACHIEVING DIVERSITY.
>> AND JUSTICE ROBERTS EXPRESSED
SYMPATHY FOR THE EQUAL
PROTECTION CLAUSE.
>> JEEF JUSTICE ROBERTS SAID, IF
THE EQUAL PROTECTION CLAUSE IS
DESIGNED TO TAKE RACE OFF THE
TABLE WHAT IS WRONG WITH VOTERS
TAKING RACE OFF THE TABLE?
WELL THE RESPONSE TO THAT BY
THOSE WHO OPPOSE THIS AMENDMENT,
MARK ROSE ROSENBAUM OF THE ACLUT
THEY WANT IS ONE PLAYING FIELD,
ONE THAT DOES NOT DISADVANTAGE
MINORITIES ON THE BASIS OF RACE
OR GENDER WHICH IS ALSO IN THE
MICHIGAN CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT.
>> SO THIS IS NOT UNIQUE TO
MICHIGAN, THOUGH, THIS APPROACH?
>> NO.
IN FACT CALIFORNIA HAS ALMOST AN
IDENTICAL AMENDMENT.
AND OTHER STATES WHILE NOT
ADOPTING CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENTS DO NOT USE RACIAL
PREFERENCE IN UNIVERSITY
ADMISSIONS.
SO THERE IS CONCERN ON THE PART
OF OPPONENTS OF THE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT, THAT
IF THE COURT OKAYS THIS
AMENDMENT OTHER STATES WILL MOVE
QUICKLY TO TAKE RACE OFF THE
TABL WHEN UNIVERSITIES LIKECHIGD
THE SUPREME COURT AS EARLY AS
2003 THAT RACE-NEUTRAL MEANS
HAVE NOT WORKED AND AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION RACIAL PREFERENCES ARE A
TOOL THAT THEY ACTUALLY NEED.
SO THAT IS ONE OF THE FEARS.
>> JUSTICE KAGEN HAS REACCUSED
HERSELF FROM THIS CASE.
>> YES SHE HAS AND IS TYPICAL OF
CASES WHERE SHE MAY HAVE BEEN
INVOLVED AS SOLICITOR GENERAL OF
THE UNITED STATES SHE RECUSED
HERSELF.
SHE RECUSED HERSELF LAST TERM IN
THE AFFIRMATIVE ACTION CASE
INVOLVING THE UNIVERSITY
OF TEXAS.
>> EIGHT JUSTICES LEFT AND
LISTENING TO THEIR ARGUMENTS
TODAY IS THERE ANY WAY YOU CAN
ADD UP A FIFTH VOTE THAT IT
WOULD TAKE TO UPHOLD THIS LAW?
>> I THINK THE SENTIMENT, THERE
IS PROBABLY A MAJORITY TO UPHOLD
THE MICHIGAN AMENDMENT.
>> HAD IT BACK BY NOW.
RD TO GET IT BACK.
THERE IS PROBABLY A MAJORITY TO
UPHOLD.
YOU 97 KNOW WHAT IF COURT IS
GOING -- THE COURT IS GOING TO
DO.
WE WERE SURPRISED WHEN THE CASE
WAS SENT BACK TO FIGHT ANOTHER
DAY.
>> MARCIA COYLE, AS ALWAYS,
THANK
>> Ifill: FOR A BROADER LOOK AT
THE UNDERLYING ISSUES IN THIS
LATEST AFFIRMATIVE ACTION
CHALLENGE, WE TURN TO COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT LEE
BOLLINGER, WHO, AS PRESIDENT OF
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, WAS PART
OF TWO PREVIOUS LANDMARK CASES
ON RACIAL PREFERENCES IN HIGHER
EDUCATION.
AND JOSHUA THOMPSON, AN ATTORNEY
WITH THE PACIFIC LEGAL
FOUNDATION, WHICH HAS DEFENDED A
SIMILAR BAN IN CALIFORNIA.
>> WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
PRESIDENT BOLLINGER WHAT DID YOU
THINK ABOUT THIS, WAS THIS ABOUT
THE PROCESS OR ABOUT AFFIRMATIVE
ACTION ITSELF, THESE ARGUMENTS
TODAY?
>> IT IS LARGELY ABOUT THE
PROCESS AS MARCIA SAID.
I THINK THAT SHE DESCRIBED THE
ALTERNATIVES, THE OPPOSING
POSITIONS CORRECTLY.
THE ONE SIDE THE POSITION IS,
THE COURT HAS SAID YOU CAN HAVE
FRIFNTION, IT'S YOUR CHOICE AND
ALL THE VOTERS OF MICHIGAN HAVE
DONE IS TAKE THIS OFF THE TABLE.
THE OTHER POSITION IS THERE HAVE
BEEN A COUPLE OF CASES IN THE
SUPREME COURT, THE SEATTLE CASE
IN PARTICULAR FROM THE EARLY
1980s WHERE THE COURT SAID IF
YOU TAKE SOMETHING INVOLVING
RACE AND ISSUE INVOLVING RACE
AND YOU MAKE IT ESPECIALLY
DIFFICULT OR IMPOSSIBLE
BASICALLY FOR THAT TO BE SOLVED
IN THE POLITICAL PROCESS THAT
INVOLVES DEEP CONCERNS.
JUSTICE KENNEDY WHO PROBABLY
WILL BE THE SWING VOTE IN THIS
WAS ESPECIALLY CONCERNED IN THE
ORAL ARGUMENT IN HIS QUESTIONS
WITH THE SEATTLE CASE AS A
PRECEDENT FOR THIS.
SO THAT'S THE ISSUE IN THE CASE.
>> JOSHUA THOMPSON, WHAT'S YOUR
POSITION?
>> THE POSITION I WORKED, THE
9th CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS,
ON CHALLENGES THAT WERE
IDENTICAL, SAYING THE POLITICAL
PROCESS IS TRYING TO BE
RESTRUCTURED ON RACE BASED
PREFERENCES.
I AGREE THAT IT IS ABOUT
STRUCTURE AND HOW THE POLITICAL
PROCESS WAS OR WAS NOT ALTERED.
MY BELIEF IS THAT YOU DO NOT
VIOLATE THE EQUAL PROTECTION
CLAUSE BY BANNING RACIAL
PREFERENCES.
IN OTHER WORDS, THE EQUAL
PROTECTION CLAUSE WAS DESIGNED
AS A MEASURE TO END RACIAL
DISCRIMINATION AND PREFERENTIAL
TREATMENT.
WHAT PROPOSITION 2 AND
PROPOSITION 209 IN CALIFORNIA
DOES, IT PROHIBITS OUTRIGHT THE
USE OF RACIAL CONSIDERATIONS IN
GOVERNMENT DECISION-MAKING.
>>Ifill: IS THIS ABOUT RACIAL
PREFERENCES AND LEGACY
PREFERENCES, NOT ANOTHER ISSUE?
>> THAT IS CERTAINLY THE
ARGUMENT THAT IS PUT FORTH BY
THE OPPONENTS OF PROPOSAL 2.
AND MY RESPONSE TO THAT IS THAT
WE HAVE A LONG HISTORY IN THIS
COUNTRY OF WHY WE TREAT RACIAL
MATTERS DIFFERENTLY.
WE HAVE A HISTORY OF KNOW THAT
DISTINCTIONS ON THE BASIS OF
RACE ARE DIVISIVE, THEY ARE
GENERALLY ABHORRENT, AND WE WANT
THE SUPREME COURT AND WE WANT
OUR CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS TO
GENERALLY PROHIBIT SUCH RACIAL
CLASSIFICATIONS.
WHAT MICHIGAN VOTERS SAID HERE
IS UDGED NO CIRCUMSTANCES WILL
WE LET OUR GOVERNMENT MAKE
DISTINCTIONS ON BASE OF RACE.
>>Ifill: LEE BOLLINGER YOUR IDEA
ON THAT?
>> AS SOON AS YOU SAY RACIAL
PREFERENCES YOU IMMEDIATELY
CHARACTERIZE THE ADMISSIONS
PROCESS AT UNIVERSITIES AND
COLLEGES ALL ACROSS THE COUNTRY
IN A WAY THAT DISTORTS WHAT
ACTUALLY HAS HAPPENED OVER THE
PAST 30, 40 YEARS.
VIRTUALLY ALL UNIVERSITIES IN
THE UNITED STATES JUST LIKE ALL
INSTITUTIONS, CORPORATION THE
MEDIA HAVE SINCE BROWN VERSUS
POAJ HAVE BEEN TRIED TO HAVE
BEEN MORE INCLUSIVE, AND REALIZE
THE PROMISE OF BROWN VS. BOARD
OF EDUCATION AND THE PROMISE OF
THE EQUAL EDUCATION CLAUSE WHICH
IS NOT ONLY TO STOP SEGREGATION
AND INTEGRATED SOCIETY AND
BENEFITS AND TAKES FULL
ADVANTAGE OF THAT DIVERSITY.
SO WHEN YOU LOOK AT ADMISSION
PROCESSES THERE ARE LOTS OF
SO-CALLED PREFERENCES GOING
AROUND.
WE CALL THEM FACTORS.
PEOPLE FROM DIFFERENT PARTS OF
THE COUNTRY, PEOPLE
INTERNATIONALLY, ATHLETES,
LEGACIES, PEOPLE WITH ALL
DIFFERENT KINDS OF TALENTS AND
RACIAL AND ETHNIC DIVERSITY IS
ONE MAJOR OTHER THINGS WE TRY TO
DO TO HAVE A VERY RICH STUDENT
BODY THAT REFLECTS THE ARRAY OF
THE HUMAN POPULATION.
AND IN THAT, YOU REALLY GET A
BETTER EDUCATIONAL EXPERIENCE,
WHILE ALSO, HELPING THE SOCIETY
ACHIEVE THE GREAT PROMISE OF
BROWN VERSUS BOARD OF EDUCATION.
>>Ifill: JOSHUA THOMPSON IS
THERE EVEN AN ACHIEVABLE RACE
NEUTRAL ALTERNATIVE?
>> I BELIEVE THERE IS.
I BELIEVE STATES ACROSS THE
COUNTRY SHOW YOU CAN ACHIEVE
THIS THROUGH RACIAL MEANS, MAY
NEED TO ACHIEVE A DIVERSITY OF
PERSPECTIVES, SCHOLARSHIPS TO
LOW INCOME AREAS AS TEXAS DID
LAST YEAR, THEY ADDED A TOP 10%
LAW WHICH ALLOWED ANYBODY THAT
GRADUATED IN THE TOP 10% OF
THEIR CLASS --
>>Ifill: BUT THE COURT DIDN'T.
DSSMENTS SPEAK TO THE TOP 10%
LAW, BUT THE USE OF RACE HAS TO
BE CAPPED WHEN IT WAS ACHIEVING
SUCH GREAT RACIAL DIVERSITY.
>>Ifill: WHAT ABOUT THAT
PRESIDENT BOLLINGER, ARE THERE
OTHER PARTS OF THE GOAL WHICH
ARE NOT EXPLICITLY ABOUT RACE?
>> SO JOSH IS RIGHT THAT IN THE
FISHER CASE THE 10% SOLUTION
THAT TEXAS HAD FOLLOWED WAS NOT
REALLY AT ISSUE.
BUT THERE'S A VERY SHARP
DISAGREEMENT WITH THE OTHER
THINGS THAT HE SAID.
SO LOOKING AT SOCIOECONOMIC
STATUS AND TRYING TO HELP
CHILDREN FROM LOW INCOME
FAMILIES GET INTO COLLEGE AND
ELITE SCHOOLS IS SOMETHING WE
ALL AGREE WITH AND WORK VERY
HARD ON AND RARELY ACHIEVE.
YOU CANNOT ACHIEVE THE RACIAL
AND ETHNIC DIVERSITY THAT WE
ALSO WANT AS PART OF THE STUDENT
BODIES BY SIMPLY FOCUSING ON
SOCIOECONOMIC STATUS.
SO THAT'S JUST THE REALITY.
THE 10% SOLUTION THAT TEXAS
ADOPTED WAS ONLY AFTER A
DECISION IN THE FIFTH CIRCUIT IN
THE '90s BEFORE THE GRUDER
CASE THAT STRUCK DOWN
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN TEXAS AND
BECAUSE THERE'S A DE FACTO
GREATED HIGH SCHOOL SYSTEM IN
THE STATE OF -- SEGREGATED HIGH
SCHOOL SYSTEM, TOP 10% OF EVERY
HIGH SCHOOL IN THE STATE GETS TO
COME TO THE UNIVERSITY.
>>Ifill: BUT IS THE HANDWRITING
ON THE WALL?
THE POSITION YOUR YOUR ARGUMENT?
I'M SORRY, IS THE HANDWRITING ON
THE WALL NOW THAT ARGUES AGAINST
YOUR APPROACH AT THE SUPREME
COURT?
>> UM -- I DON'T THINK SO.
I MEAN WHAT WE HAVE ARE A SERIES
OF PRECEDENTS NOW FROM BACHI AND
POWELL'S OPINION AND GRUDER TO
REALLY THE FISHER CASE WHICH
REAFFIRMED THIS THAT'S VERY
STRONG ON THIS.
SO I'M NOT AT ALL DOUBTFUL ABOUT
THE CONTINUING VALIDITY OF THE
POLLS.
>>Ifill: JOSHUA.
I THINK THE WRITING IS ON THE
WALL, STATES THAT ADOPTED IT,
CALIFORNIA IN 1996, WASHINGTON,
BEING MINNESOTA, THESE STATES DO
NOT LIKE RACIAL PREFERENCES AND
AS LONG AS THE SUPREME COURT
UPHOLDS THEIR OPINIONS, VOTERS
WILL ALSO.
>>Ifill: LEE BOLLINGER, AND
JOSHUA THOMPSON, THANK YOU BOTH
VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: WITH THE PROSPECT
OF THE GOVERNMENT HITTING ITS
DEBT LIMIT LOOMING, INVESTORS
OVER THE PAST 2 WEEKS HAVE SOLD
OFF BILLIONS OF DOLLARS WORTH OF
U.S. TREASURY BILLS.
FOR A LOOK AT THE DYNAMICS
BEHIND THE SELL-OFF AND WHAT THE
POTENTIAL EFFECT ON THE LARGER
ECONOMY COULD BE, PAUL SOLMAN
VISITED ONE OF THE COUNTRY'S
LARGEST BOND TRADING COMPANIES.
IT'S PART OF PAUL'S ONGOING
REPORTING, "MAKING SENSE OF
FINANCIAL NEWS."
>> Reporter: THE
ADMINISTRATION'S LATEST WARNING
TODAY ABOUT THE DANGER OF
DEFAULT, FROM SPOKESMAN JAY
CARNEY.
>> THAT HAS TREMENDOUS NEGATIVE
CONSEQUENCES FOR OUR ECONOMY,
NOT ALL OF WHICH ARE KNOWABLE
BEYOND THE FACT THAT WE KNOW
THEY'RE BAD.
>> Reporter: YESTERDAY, THE
PRESIDENT HIMSELF SOUNDED A MORE
SPECIFIC ALARM.
>> DEFAULTING WOULD HAVE A
POTENTIALLY DEVASTATING EFFECT
ON OUR ECONOMY, SENDING INTEREST
RATES SHOOTING UP.
>> Reporter: AND HOBBLING THE
ECONOMY.
THAT'S BEEN THE WARNING EACH
TIME AMERICA HAS NEARED DEBT
DEFAULT IN THE PAST FEW YEARS:
MORTGAGES SOARING; CONSUMERS AND
BUSINESSES UNABLE TO BORROW; THE
GOVERNMENT FORCED TO PAY UNTOLD
BILLIONS TO BORROW MORE MONEY,
IF AND WHEN IT CAN, PLUNGING US
DEEPER INTO DEBT.
SO ARE THE INTEREST RATES THE
U.S. TREASURY HAS TO PAY TO
BORROW MONEY GOING UP?
THIS MORNING, WE WENT TO ONE OF
THE WORLD'S LARGEST DEALERS IN
TREASURIES-- RBS IN STAMFORD,
CONNECTICUT-- TO FIND OUT.
AND INDEED, IT LOOKED LIKE ALL
>> YOU GUYS SEE THE HOUSE IS
SAYING THIS IS GOING TO BE DEAD
ON ARRIVAL?
>> Reporter: MICHELLE GIRARD,
CHIEF MARKET ECONOMIST AT RBS,
RELAYED THE LATEST NEWS.
BUT NEXT DESK OVER, JOHN BRIGGS,
WHO ADVISES CLIENTS ON INTEREST
RATES, SAID NOT TO WORRY.
>> THE BOND MARKET SO FAR HASN'T
SHOWN A LOT OF CONCERN ABOUT THE
DEBT CEILING.
>> U.S. TREASURY BOND BEEN IN
THE LAST COUPLE OF WEEKS?
>> SO THEY FELL FROM 3% TO ABOUT
2.7% WHICH IS A FAIRLY MODEST
DECLINE.
>> BUT THAT IS STILL A DECLINE
WHEN THE PRESIDENT IS SAYING, OH
MY GOODNESS IF THIS HAPPENS
INTEREST RATES WILL SHOOT
>> CORRECT.
>> Reporter: SO WHAT'S GOING ON?
M.I.T. ECONOMIST SIMON JOHNSON
TRIED TO EXPLAIN IT TO US.
>> WE HAVE A VERY STRANGE
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE WORLD
ECONOMY.
WHEN WE SCARE PEOPLE A LOT, WHAT
THEY WANT TO DO, INVESTORS, IS
FIND SOMETHING THAT'S SAFE.
THE SAFEST ASSET THEY CAN FIND
IS U.S. TREASURY DEBT.
>> Reporter: BUT HOW COULD
ANYTHING BE RISKIER THAN A BOND
THAT THE ISSUER SAYS WE'RE NOT
GOING TO PAY, WE'LL DEFAULT?
>> IN THE U.S., WE HAVE A LONG
HISTORY OF POLITICIANS SAYING
MANY THINGS THAT TURN OUT NOT TO
BE ENTIRELY ACCURATE.
THIS IS A GAME THAT THEY'RE
PLAYING.
WILL THEY, POLITICIANS--
ULTIMATELY THE POLITICAL
SYSTEM-- ULTIMATELY LEAD US TO A
POINT IN WHICH WE DEFAULT ON
THOSE DEBTS?
PROBABLY NOT.
WILL THERE BE CHAOS ALONG THE
WAY AND DAMAGE TO THE ECONOMY?
YES.
>> Reporter: AND YES, DAMAGE TO
THE ECONOMY WAS SPOOKING NOT
BONDS, BUT THE STOCK MARKET THIS
MORNING, SAID ECONOMIST GIRARD.
>> BECAUSE IF THE U.S. WERE TO
GET INTO A SITUATION WHERE WE
WERE FACING DEFAULT, THE
ECONOMIC CONSEQUENCES WOULD BE
SIGNIFICANT, FAR LARGER THAN THE
IMPACT OF A GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN.
WE'RE TALKING VERY SEVERE
RECESSION.
NOW THAT'S AN UNLIKELY SCENARIO.
BUT THAT'S EXACTLY THE KIND OF
THING THAT RATTLES THE STOCK
MARKET.
>> Reporter: AND SO STOCKS,
AFTER RALLYING FOR DAYS, WERE
DOWN THIS MORNING.
BUT ARE BOND INVESTORS TOTALLY
IMPERVIOUS TO WHAT'S GOING ON IN
D.C.?
NO, SAID JOHN BRIGGS.
>> SO THERE'S A VERY SHORT-TERM
GOVERNMENT SECURITY, A TREASURY
BILL, WHICH MATURES ON OCTOBER
24.
>> Reporter: AND THAT'S THIS
CHART OVER HERE.
>> CORRECT.
IT ALMOST GOT DOWN TO ALMOST
ZERO.
THIS IS THE GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN.
AND YOU CAN SEE THAT THE CLOSER
WE GOT TO THE DEBT CEILING A
POTENTIAL DEFAULT, THE MORE
INVESTORS WOULD DEMAND TO HOLD
THAT SECURITY, BECAUSE THAT IS
RIGHT IN THAT WINDOW WHERE, IF
WE RUN OUT OF CASH, THIS IS THE
FIRST SECURITY THAT WILL NOT
PAY.
>> Reporter: GOT IT.
AND SO THAT'S A HUGE JUMP, FROM
ZERO TO... WHAT IS THAT?
>> .05%.
HALF A PERCENT.
>> Reporter: AND SO THIS THREE-
MONTH TREASURY BILL, COMING DUE
IN A WEEK, IS WHAT BOND MARKET
WATCHERS ARE MONITORING MOST
CLOSELY.
AND WHAT'S HAPPENED TO IT SINCE?
RED MEANS IT'S FALLING, RIGHT?
>> SO THAT REFLECTS INCREASED
CONFIDENCE THAT A DEAL IS GOING
TO GET DONE.
WE HAD NEWS OVER THE WEEKEND
THAT REID AND McCONNELL THOUGHT
A DEAL WOULD BE COMING, POSSIBLY
TODAY.
SO WE STARTED TO FALL DOWN INTO
ESSENTIALLY 20 BASIS POINTS FROM
50 A FEW DAYS AGO.
BUT NOW WE'RE RISING AGAIN
TODAY, BECAUSE THE HOUSE
REPUBLICANS SEEM TO BE SAYING
THEY WILL SHOOT DOWN THIS LATEST
SENATE BILL.
>> Reporter: BUT, AS IT TURNS
OUT, RISING ONLY SLIGHTLY, TO 22
BASIS POINTS.
IT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE THE BOND
MARKET IS TERRIBLY SCARED AT
THIS POINT EITHER.
>> NOT TERRIBLY SCARED, BUT AS
WE GET CLOSER, I WOULD EXPECT IF
WE DO NOT HAVE A DEAL, I WOULD
EXPECT YIELDS TO MOVE BACK UP.
>> Reporter: AND AS OF THE BOND
MARKET'S CLOSE, THEY HAD.
THE INTEREST RATE ON THE OCTOBER
24 T-BILL IS BACK UP NEAR HALF A
PERCENT, 45 BASIS POINTS-- WHICH
MAY NOT SOUND LIKE MUCH, BUT
SIGNALS THAT AT LEAST TEMPORARY
DEFAULT IS A LOT MORE OF A RISK
THAN IT WAS THOUGHT TO BE  OVER
THE WEEKEND.
>> Ifill: NOW, A PROGRAM
DESIGNED TO HELP ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL STUDENTS BECOME BETTER
READERS BY RETRAINING THEIR
TEACHERS.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT JOHN
TULENKO FROM LEARNING MATTERS
HAS OUR REPORT.
>> HOW MANY SOUNDS ARE IN THIS
WORD, BOYS AND GIRLS?
LET'S COUNT.
B-R-A-T, BRAT!
THERE'S FOUR SOUNDS IN THAT
WORD, RIGHT?
>> Reporter: JUST FOUR SOUNDS.
SIMPLE ENOUGH FOR THESE
BEGINNING READERS AT BETANCES
ELEMENTARY IN HARTFORD,
CONNECTICUT.
BUT WATCH WHAT HAPPENS WHEN
LITERACY EXPERT DR. LINDA
BRONSTEIN SWITCHES THE LETTERS
"R" AND "A" IN THE WORD "BRAT."
>> LET'S SEE HOW MANY SOUNDS ARE
IN THERE NOW, EVERYBODY.
LET'S SEE HOW MANY SOUNDS.
>> "B," "AR," "T."
>> LOOK AT THAT.
WHAT HAPPENED?
NOW WE HAVE ONLY THREE SOUNDS.
YOU CANT SAY "AH" ANYMORE,
BECAUSE NOW YOUR SOUND IS "AR."
THIS "R" IS BOSSING YOU AND
MAKING A NEW SOUND, WHICH IS
"AR."
>> Reporter: WHEN THE LETTER "R"
COMES AFTER A VOWEL, IT CHANGES
THE VOWEL'S SOUND.
BRONSTEIN CALLS THIS THE BOSSY
"R."
AND THAT'S JUST ONE OF THE MANY
RULES EARLY READERS NEED TO
REMEMBER.
THERE'S ALSO...
>> VOWEL TEAMS?
YOU NEED TO KNOW IF YOU SEE TWO
VOWELS TOGETHER, THE FIRST ONE
DOES THE TALKING.
>> DIAGRAPHS.
SO, LIKE, "S" AND "H" SAY "SHH."
>> "E-R" SAYS "ER," "ER," "ER,"
LIKE "LADDER."
>> WHICH ALSO ALMOST SOUNDS LIKE
THE "I-R" IN "BIRD."
>> IF IT'S A CONSONANT, VOWEL,
CONSONANT, YOU SANDWICH THE
VOWEL, AND IT'S THEN CLOSED, AND
IT'S GOING TO MAKE A SHORT
SOUND.
>> SO FOR "CAT," "C-AH-T,"
"CAT."
>> BUT "CAKE" SAYS "AY," "C-AY-
K."
>> SEE HOW COMPLEX IT IS?
THERE'S A LOT TO TEACHING
READING.
>> "B-AR-T," "BART."
>> Reporter: IN THE UNITED
STATES, LEARNING TO READ IS A
MAJOR CHALLENGE.
NATIONAL TESTS SHOW TWO-THIRDS
OF ALL FOURTH-GRADERS SCORE
BELOW PROFICIENT.
THERE ARE MANY REASONS WHY, BUT
ONE IN PARTICULAR MAY COME AS A
SURPRISE.
WHEN YOU WERE IN EDUCATION
SCHOOL, HOW MUCH TRAINING DID
YOU GET IN TEACHING CHILDREN TO
READ?
>> VERY LITTLE, VERY LITTLE.
>> Reporter: LIKE MANY TEACHERS
NATIONWIDE, JACLYN NARDI STARTED
HER CAREER IN THE CLASSROOM
UNPREPARED FOR THE COMPLEXITY OF
TEACHING CHILDREN TO READ.
>> A LOT OF COLLEGE, I FEEL
LIKE, WAS LESSON PLANNING.
IT WAS A LOT OF THE PAPERWORK
SIDE OF IT, NOT AS MUCH AS THE
HANDS-ON TEACHER EXPERIENCE.
>> Reporter: SHE WAS WEAKEST IN
TEACHING ONE ESSENTIAL READING
SKILL, DECODING.
>> PHONICS WAS MY ISSUE.
IN COLLEGE WE DID A LOT OF
"LET'S READ TOGETH ANDER TALK
ABOUT WHAT WE'VE READ."
BUT IT WASN'T REALLY BREAKING
DOWN PARTS OF A WORD.
SO I DIDN'T REALLY HAVE THE
SKILLS, HOW TO GET THEM FROM
POINT A TO POINT B.
I WAS NEVER TAUGHT ANYTHING LIKE
THAT IN COLLEGE.
>> Reporter: A RECENT
EXAMINATION OF COURSEWORK AT
HUNDREDS OF COLLEGES OF
EDUCATION FOUND 60% GIVE JUST
PASSING ATTENTION TO DECODING,
MEMORIZING COMMON WORDS BY
SIGHT, AND OTHER SKILLS CRITICAL
TO READING.
CRITICS QUESTION THE
METHODOLOGY, BUT CONCEDE THAT
TRAINING NEEDS TO IMPROVE.
TO ADDRESS THAT, IN 2010
HARTFORD TURNED BETANCES INTO A
MODEL SCHOOL WHERE TEACHERS
LEARN TO TEACH READING
>> "CURLY" IS "UR," "U-R."
>> Reporter: A KEY COMPONENT IS
AN APPROACH SIMILAR TO THE
RESIDENCIES USED TO TRAIN
DOCTORS.
MOST NEW HIRES AT BETANCES BEGIN
AS ASSOCIATE TEACHERS AND COME
STRAIGHT OUT OF COLLEGE.
>> COMING HERE, I LEARNED MORE
STRATEGIES AND ACTUALLY HANDS-ON
THINGS I CAN DO WITH THE
STUDENTS.
>> Reporter: ASSOCIATE TEACHERS,
LIKE FAITH KURECZKA, ARE PAID A
STANDARD SALARY AND WORK THE
SAME HOURS AS REGULAR TEACHERS.
HOWEVER, INSTEAD OF BEING THROWN
INTO A CLASSROOM TO FEND FOR
THEMSELVES, HERE THEY SPEND A
YEAR OR MORE CO-TEACHING WITH
EXPERIENCED INSTRUCTORS.
>> YOU REALLY NEED TO COME IN
EACH DAY AND HAVE CONVERSATIONS
WITH YOUR COLLEAGUES AND REALLY
LEARN THE JOB SO YOU'RE READY
FOR YOUR OWN CLASSROOM.
AND I THINK FOR ME, IT WAS VERY
BENEFICIAL, BECAUSE NOW I HAVE
ALL THIS KNOWLEDGE, AND I CAN
USE IT.
>> Reporter: THE OTHER KEY
ELEMENT TO THE BETANCES MODEL IS
A STRONG MENTOR.
DR. LINDA BRONSTEIN'S FULL-TIME
JOB IS TO IMPROVE READING
INSTRUCTION AT THE SCHOOL.
>> I'M IN AND OUT OF CLASSROOMS
ALL DAY.
I DO MODELING WHERE I'M
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE LESSON.
WHAT IS THE AUTHOR TRYING TO
TELL US?
COACHING IS WHERE THE TEACHER IS
DOING THE LESSON, AND I MIGHT
JUMP IN AND GIVE SOME TIPS.
>> Reporter: EVEN WHEN SHE'S NOT
IN THE CLASSROOM, BRONSTEIN IS
WATCHING.
>> WE HAVE TWO CAMERAS IN EVERY
ROOM, AND I CAN WATCH
INSTRUCTION FROM MY OFFICE.
>> Reporter: TEACHERS RECEIVE
INSTANT FEEDBACK-- OVER THE
PHONE, BY E-MAIL, OR IN PERSON.
>> I'M KNOWN TO BE A PERSON WHO
HAS TO CORRECT SOMETHING RIGHT
AWAY.
AND THE TEACHERS, THEY'VE GOTTEN
USED TO IT.
>> ANY MINUT
COULD BE WATCHING YOU, OR JUST
WALK INTO YOUR CLASSROOM AND
OBSERVE, SO YOU'RE ALWAYS ON
YOUR "A" GAME.
BUT I'M GLAD THAT WE HAVE... AS
MUCH AS I DISLIKE THE CAMERAS,
THAT WE HAVE THEM HERE, BECAUSE
YOU'RE ALWAYS GETTING FEEDBACK
FROM DR. BRONSTEIN AND FROM EACH
OTHER.
>> Reporter: TEACHERS AT
BETANCES WORK ON LESSONS
TOGETHER AT LEAST ONCE A WEEK,
OFTEN REVIEWING VIDEOS OF
THEMSELVES AND THEIR COLLEAGUES.
WHAT'S IT LIKE TO HAVE A CAMERA
RECORDING YOUR EVERY MOVEMENT?
>> I MEAN, I DO GET A LITTLE
NERVOUS EVERY TIME THEY TURN ON,
BUT I KNOW THAT IT IS THE BEST
WAY TO QUICKLY IMPROVE, TO WATCH
YOURSELF ON VIDEO AND SEE WHAT
YOU'RE DOING EFFECTIVELY, AND
WHAT YOU NEED TO IMPROVE ON.
>> Reporter: AFTER TWO YEARS
LEARNING THIS WAY, ASSOCIATE
TEACHERS WILL BE REASSIGNED TO
OTHER SCOLS.HO
HARTFORD SPENT $400,000 TO
CREATE THE MODEL AT BETANCES IN
HOPES OF SUBSTANTIALLY GROWING
THE NUMBER OF READING EXPERTS
DISTRICT-WIDE.
QUALITY IS IMPORTANT.
BUT YOU HAVE TO PUT YOUR MONEY
BEHIND IT.
>> Reporter: IT SEEMS TO BE
PAYING OFF.
IN ITS SECOND YEAR, 87% OF
THIRD-GRADERS ACHIEVED
PROFICIENCY ON THE STATE READING
TEST.
THAT'S MORE THAN DOUBLE THE YEAR
BEFORE.
BUT IS IT TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE?
OVER THE SUMMER, THE STATE BEGAN
AN INVESTIGATION INTO WHAT IT
CALLED POTENTIAL IRREGULARITIES
IN THE SCHOOL'S TEST SCORES.
STATE OFFICIALS AREN'T SAYING
WHAT THAT MEANS.
ON OUR VISIT, MADE PRIOR TO THE
INVESTIGATION, WE BROUGHT UP THE
POSSIBILITY OF CHEATING.
SOME PEOPLE MIGHT SAY A JUMP
FROM 42% UP TO 87%, THAT LOOKS
SUSPECT.
> I KNOW.
WELL, BUT I KNOW WHAT WE DID.
I KNOW WHAT WE DID.
WE WORKED INTENSIVELY.
WE DID SMALL GROUP INSTRUCTION
WITH THOSE CHILDREN.
WE TAUGHT THEM THE STRATEGIES
THEY NEEDED.
AND IT WORKED.
>> Reporter: BRONSTEIN INSISTS
THE SCORES ARE ACCURATE.
FURTHER EVIDENCE THE APPROACH
WORKS COMES FROM COUNTRIES LIKE
FINLAND AND SINGAPORE THAT USE
SIMILAR METHODS OF TRAINING
TEACHERS, AND WHOSE STUDENTS
OUTPERFORM THEIR COUNTERPARTS
HERE IN THE UNITED STATES.
>> Woodruff: THE NATION'S
HIGHEST MILITARY HONOR WAS
AWARDED TODAY TO A SOLDIER FOR
HIS BRAVERY AND HUMANITY ON THE
BATTLEFIELD.
RAY SUAREZ HAS OUR STORY.
>> I THINK OUR NATION NEEDS THIS
CEREMONY TODAY.
>> PRESIDENT OBAMA MADE THE
FORMAL AWARD TO WILLIAM SWENSON
IN THE WHITE HOUSE EAST ROOM AND
HE ALLUDED TO THE FISCAL FIGHT
DOMINATING WASHINGTON.
>> IN MOMENTS LIKE THIS,
AMERICANS LIKE WILL REMIND US
WHAT OUR COUNTRY CAN BE AT ITS
BEST.
>> THE FORMER ARMY CAPTAIN IS
ONLY THE SIXTH LIVING
RECIPIENTS, IN DECEMBER 2009 HE
WAS SERVING AS AN EMBEDDED
TRAINER AND MENTOR TO AFGHAN
SECURITY FORCES.
THIS ARMY SIMULATION SHOWS HOW
HIS ARMY WASSING CAUGHT IN NEAR
THE PAKISTAN BORDER.
>> HAS BEEN SHOT IN THE NECK.
WILL BREAKS OVER 50 METERS OF
OPEN SPACE, BULLETS ALL AROUND.
HE PRESSES A BANDAGE TO
KENNETH'S WOUND, CALLING A
MEDIVAC, TRYING TO KEEP HIS
BUDDY CALM.
OVER THE RADIO THEY ARE
DEMANDING THE AMERICANS TO
SURRENDER SO WILL STOPS TREATING
KENNETH LONG ENOUGH TO LOBBY A
GRENADE, AND AFTER AN HOUR AND A
HALF OF FIGHTING AIR SUPPORT
ARRIVES.
>> A HELMET CAM SHOWED SWEN
SEWNSON SWENSON KISSING THE
MAN'S HEAD TO ASSURE HIM.
THE PENTAGON IS NOW
INVESTIGATING ALLEGATIONS THAT
SWENSON'S NOMINATION WAS DELAYED
BECAUSE HE CRITICIZED SUPERIORS
OVER THE HANDLING OF THE BATTLE
APPROXIMATELY THE MILITARY SAYS
HIS PAPERWORK IS LOST.
, I'M JOINED BY DAVID NAKAMORA
OF THE WASHINGTON POST.
HE HAS INTERVIEWED SWENSON MANY
TIMES.
WHILE THIS IS A STORY OF
UNCOMMON HEROISM.
>> HE LEFT THE MILITARY TWO
YEARS AGO, HE WENT BACK TO HIS
NATIVE SEATTLE WHERE HE IS FROM
AND WHERE HE WENT TO COLLEGE.
HE HAS KEPT A LOW PROFILE.
THERE IS A LOT OF ALLEGATIONS
THAT THE ARMY WAS CONCERNED
ABOUT HIS CRITICISM, CONCERNED
ABOUT WHAT KIND OF
REPRESENTATION HE WOULD GIVE IF
HE WAS ON A PUBLIC STAGE.
THERE ARE PRESSURES FROM
OUTSIDE.
WHAT HAPPENED TO HIS NOMINATION?
HE DESERVED IT, GOT IT TODAY
STOOD UP THERE LIKE A GOOD
SOLDIER AND BACK IN HIS UNIFORM.
THAT WAS A POWERFUL MOMENT.
>> THE PRESIDENT TOLD THE STORY
OF HOW THIS AWARD CAME TO BE.
IT TOOK A LONG TIME FOR THOSE
MEN TO GET AIR SUPPORT WHEN THEY
WERE PINNED DOWN BY THOSE
SNIPERS.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
OUR REPORTING SHOWED IT TOOK
ABOUT 90 MINUTES FROM WHAT WE
UNDERSTAND FROM EYEWITNESSES
FROM PEOPLE INVOLVED IN THE
AMBUSH.
90 MINUTES OF PURE FIGHTING.
THESE WERE 11 OR SO U.S.
TRAINERS AND BORDER POLICE WHO
WERE ALLIED WITH THE U.S. BUT
NOT COMPLETELY UNDER OUR
COMMAND.
SO SOME OF THOSE FOLKS JUST RAN
OFF INTO BATTLE.
THE U.S. SOLDIERS AND MARINE
CORPS GOT SEPARATED FROM EACH
OTHER, WHICH WAS PART OF THE
PROBLEM.
THE COMMUNICATION WAS CUT OFF AT
ONE POINT SO THEY WERE REALLY
STRANDED ON THE BATTLE FIELD FOR
A LONG TIME.
IT TOOK A LONG TIME FOR WILL
SWENSON AND HIS BUDDIES, THEY
WEREE TO REGROUP AND GO BACK
OUT AND THEY FOUND THREE MARINES
AND A NAVY CORPSMAN WHO HAD BEEN
KILLED UNFORTUNATELY.
>> WHAT ARE EXPLANATIONS WHY OUR
MILITARY WAS SO SLOW IN
RESPONDING TO MEN IN REAL
TROUBLE?
>> THERE WAS AN INVESTIGATION,
OVERALL, THE U.S. HAD A SURGE
BUT CIVILIAN CASUALTIES IN
AFGHANISTAN WERE MOUNTING UP AND
THAT WAS HARMING THE MISSION TO
GAIN TRUST IN THE OUTER
VILLAGES.
THE ARMY DID AFTER WILL SWENSON
RAISED THESE CONCERNS DID DO AN
INVESTIGATION AND REPRIMANDED
TWO OFFICERS AT THE DEMAND TO
TRY TO SUPPORT THIS MISSION AND
FOUND THEY HAD ACTED NEGLIGIBLY
AND ENDED UP SANCTIONING THEM
SEVERELY.
WILL SWENSON CREATED ILL WILL
AMONG HIS SUPERIORS BECAUSE OF
CRIT SIGH SIZE -- CRIT SKIING
THEM.
>> ANOTHER MARINE HAS BEEN
DECORATED FOR THAT SAME
FIREFIGHT.
ARE THERE MULTIPLE DIVISIONS?
>> NOBODY CAN THINK THERE'S AN
AIRTIGHT STORY THAT ALL 11 MEN
WOULD AGREE ON.
BUT WHAT HAPPENED WAS CORPORAL
MEYER, HE WAS 21 YEARS OLD AT
THIS TIME, EVERYONE SAID HE
ACTED HEROICALLY AND PROBABLY
DESERVED A MEDAL, BUT BECAUSE
THE MARINE CORPS WAS EAGER FOR A
MEDAL, THE PRESIDENT TOOK THE
INITIATIVE AND CREDITED HIM WITH
SAVING MORE PEOPLE AND PERHAPS
KILLING MORE INSURGENTS THAN THE
REPORTING HAS PROVED TO BE
ACCURATE.
THAT IS CONSISTENT WITH WHAT
SWENSON HAD TO SAY.
NOT OUT OF PERSONAL INTEREST
SWENSON SAYS I WANT TO TELL THE
TRUTH.
HE'S NOT DOING A LOT OF MEDIA
UNTIL THIS WEEK, HE'S TRYING TO
GET THE STORY OUT IN THE RIGHT
WAY, THE MILITARY DOING THE
INVESTIGATION AND COMING OUT
WITH THE FACTS.
> MILITARY, HAS HE HAD A
TOUGH TIME IN PRIVATE LIFE?
WHAT IS HE UP TO NOW?
>> HE SAID I'VE BEEN UNEMPLOYED,
SARCASTICALLY REFERRED TO IT AS
MY FORCED EARLY RETIREMENT.
HE WAS A RANGER, DEDICATED
MILITARY GUY, LIKED WHAT HE WAS
DOING, HE WAS 30 YEARS OLD AT
THE TIME OF THE BATTLE.
THIS IS A REMARKABLE TWIST,
CONFIRMED BY THE ARMY, HE HAS
ASKED, MAYBE AS LATE AS TODAY,
TO BE RETURNED TO ACTIVE DUTY.
AND THE ARMY IS NOW, YOU KNOW
HE'S NOT SAID THIS BUT THE ARMY
IS CONFIRMING THIS JUST A FEW
HOURS AGO, THEY SAID THEY ARE
PROCESSING HIM JUST LIKE THEY
WOULD ANYONE ELSE, WILL HAVE TO
DO A DRUG TEST, LEFT THE ARMY
HONORABLY AND NOBLELY AND
HOPEFULLY WILL BE BACK AS A
CAPTAIN OR A MAJOR.
>> DAVID NAKAMORA, THANKS VERY
MUCH.
>> THANKS RAY.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
WHAT IF THE GLASS BUBBLE TOP ON
THE CAR IN WHICH PRESIDENT JOHN
F. KENNEDY WAS RIDING IN DALLAS
HAD NOT BEEN REMOVED BY A SECRET
SERVICE AGENT?
THAT'S THE PREMISE, BASED ON
REAL EVENTS, FOR OUR OWN JIM
LEHRER'S NEWEST BOOK, "TOP DOWN:
A NOVEL OF THE KENNEDY
ASSASSINATION."
I TALKED TO HIM RECENTLY.
JIM LEHRER, WELCOME BACK TO
THE NewsHOUR.
>> THANK YOU JUDY, PLEASURE.
IT'S NICE TO TALK TO YOU ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE DESK.
>> LITTLE STE FOR ME BUT
IT'S GREAT.
>> YOU WERE THERE ON NOVEMBER
22nd, 1963.
YOU WERE A REPORTER FOR THE
DALLAS TIMES HERALD.
YOU WERE COVERING THE DAY
PRESIDENT KENNEDY WAS COMING
THERE.
YOU WERE AT THE AIRPORT WHEN IT
ALL HAPPENED.
AND YET, IT'S 50 YEARS LATER,
YOU'RE WRITING THIS BOOK.
HOW DID THAT HAPPEN?
>> WELL, I WAS HAUNTED BY THE
EVENTS OF THAT DAY.
AND HAD TO DO WITH THE BUBBLE
TOP.
WE HAD AN OPEN TELEPHONE LINE
WITH OUR RE-WRITE DESK AT THE
TIMES HERALD BECAUSE THE
KENNEDYS WERE COMING IN TO
DALLAS RIGHT ON OUR DEADLINE.
AND SO THE HERALD WANTING TO
KEEP THE STORY UPDATED AND ALL
THAT, AND JUST BEFORE THE
AIRPLANE WAS TO ARRIVE, AIR
FORCE 1 WAS TO ARRIVE AT LOVE
FIELD, THE REWRITE MAN SAID TO
ME IS THE BUBBLE TOP GOING TO BE
UP?
I SAID, I COULDN'T SEE -- TO
MAKE A LONG STORY SHORT I WENT
TO THE RAMP, WHERE THE CARS
WERE, I SAW THE BUBBLE TOP WAS
UP SO I SAID TO THE SECRET
SERVICE AGENT YOU KNOW EVERYONE
WANTS TO KNOW DO YOU WANT TO
LEAVE THE BUBBLE TOP UP?
THE REASON IT WAS UP WAS BECAUSE
IT HAD BEEN RAINING IN DALLAS.
HE SAID WELL IT'S CLEAR HERE.
THE AGENT SAID ON THE TWO WAY
RADIO, CLEAR DOWNTOWN.
SO THE AGENT SAID TO THE OTHER
AGENT, LOSE THE BUBBLE TOP.
WHAT HAPPENED FOR ME WAS THE
AGENT WHO MADE THIS DECISION AND
WHO TALKED TO ME I RAN IN TO HIM
AT MIDNIGHT THAT NIGHT AFTER THE
ASSASSINATION HAD OCCURRED IN
THE DALLAS POLICE STATION AND HE
CAME OUT OF THE MEETING I WAS
STANDING THERE AND HE CAME OVER
TO ME AND SAID TEARS IN HIS EYES
OH JIM IF I HADN'T TABLE THE
BUBBLE TOP DOWN.
THE THEORY BEING EVEN IF THE
BUBBLE TOP WAS UP, EVEN THOUGH
IT WASN'T BULLET PROOF, IT COULD
HAVE DEFLECTED.
THERE COULD BE AN EXPECTATION
THAT IT WAS BULLET PROOF.
>> YOU SAY YOU WERE HAUNTED,
WHAT IS THAT?
>> OLD WHAT-IF STORY.
WHAT IF THEY HAD LEFT THE BUBBLE
TOP UP?
WOULD JOHN F. KENNEDY HAVE DIED
ON NOVEMBER 22nd, 1963?
WELL, THERE ARE THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE WHO HAD SOME PIECE OF THE
DECISION TO DO SOMETHING THAT
AFFECTED, FOR INSTANCE, THERE
WERE PEOPLE IN DALLAS WHO ARGUED
AGAINST HAVING A MOTORCADE.
THERE WERE OTHER PEOPLE WHO
ARGUED IN WASHINGTON, AGAINST
KENDALL GOING TO TEXAS AT ALL ON
THIS POLITICAL -- KENNEDY GOING
TO TEXAS AT ALL.
WHAT IF I HADN'T DONE THIS?
THAT IS ONE OF THOSE STORIES.
>> IT IS CALLS FROM THE
PERSPECTIVE OF THE NEWSPAPER
WRITER.
HOW MUCH IN THE REAL WORLD DO
YOU KNOW HAVE THESE AGENTS BEEN
TORMENTED BY THAT?
>> FIRST LET ME SAY THAT PART OF
THE STORY IS COMPLETELY
FICTIONAL IN TERMS OF THE AGENT.
IT IS THE STORY OF THIS AGENT
WHO MADE MY STORY A FICTION
STORY.
AND IT DROVE HIM -- IT DROVE HIM
TO A STATE OF DEPRESSION, WHAT
WOULD NOW BE CALLED PTSD.
ONE OF THE REASONS I FINALLY
EARNED UP DECIDING TO WRITE THIS
BOOK WAS THAT I DID KNOW THAT
THERE WERE MILLION SECRET
SERVICE AGENTS INVOLVED IN THAT
TRIP.
SOME OF THEM IN DALLAS SOME OF
THEM ELSEWHERE AND MANY OF THEM
SUFFERED VARIOUS AILMENTS AS A
RESULT OF WHAT HAPPENED ON
NOVEMBER 22nd.
SOME OF THEM DID HAVE SERIOUS
MENTAL PROBLEMS, SOME HAD
SERIOUS DRINKING PROBLEMS, SOME
SUICIDES.
THINGS THAT WERE NOT REALLY
REPORTED AT THE TIME BECAUSE THE
SECRET SERVICE DIDN'T WANT IT
OUT.
AND THE FAMILIES DIDN'T WANT IT
THE AGENTS THEMSELVES DIDN'T
OUT.
WANT IT OUT.
THE AGENTS THEMSELVES DIDN'T
THEY DIDN'T WANT TO TALK ABOUT
WANT IT OUT.
IT.
THEY DIDN'T WANT TO TALK ABOUT
BECAUSE MOST OF THOSE AGENTS ARE
IT.
GONE NOW.
BECAUSE MOST OF THOSE AGENTS ARE
EVEN IN THE SERVICE ACTIVE
GONE NOW.
AGENTS DO NOT TALK ABOUT THE
EVEN IN THE SERVICE ACTIVE
KENNEDY ASSASSINATION.
AGENTS DO NOT TALK ABOUT THE
>> WAS IT EASIER TO WRITE ABOUT
KENNEDY ASSASSINATION.
THIS WITH THE PASSAGE OF TIME?
>> WAS IT EASIER TO WRITE ABOUT
>> CERTAINLY THERE WAS.
THIS WITH THE PASSAGE OF TIME?
IF I HAD WREN IT EARLIER IT
>> CERTAINLY THERE WAS.
PROBABLY WOULD HAVE BEEN A
IF I HAD WREN IT EARLIER IT
DIFFERENT BOOK.
PROBABLY WOULD HAVE BEEN A
ALSO I BECAME INTERESTED IN PTSD
DIFFERENT BOOK.
AND WHAT TRAUMA EITHER BEING
ALSO I BECAME INTERESTED IN PTSD
PART OF A TRAUMA, YOU DON'T HAVE
AND WHAT TRAUMA EITHER BEING
TO BE -- THE PERSON WHO IS
PART OF A TRAUMA, YOU DON'T HAVE
TRAUMATIZED BY THE ACTION ITSELF
TO BE -- THE PERSON WHO IS
BUT JUST TO OBSERVE IT, JUST TO
TRAUMATIZED BY THE ACTION ITSELF
BE PART OF IT.
BUT JUST TO OBSERVE IT, JUST TO
WHAT IT CAN DO TO SOMEBODY, IT
BE PART OF IT.
CAN CHANGE THE WAY YOU THINK, IT
WHAT IT CAN DO TO SOMEBODY, IT
CAN CHANGE THE WAY YOU LIVE FOR
CAN CHANGE THE WAY YOU THINK, IT
REST OF YOUR LIFE.
CAN CHANGE THE WAY YOU LIVE FOR
>> IS IT HARDER TO WRITE A NOVEL
REST OF YOUR LIFE.
ABOUT SOMETHING, AN INCIDENT
>> IS IT HARDER TO WRITE A NOVEL
ABOUT WHICH SO MUCH HAS ALREADY
ABOUT SOMETHING, AN INCIDENT
BEEN WRITTEN?
ABOUT WHICH SO MUCH HAS ALREADY
>> YES, IT IS.
BEEN WRITTEN?
IN FACT, I WAS RELUCTANT ALMOST
>> YES, IT IS.
DECIDED NOT TO DO IT.
IN FACT, I WAS RELUCTANT ALMOST
I THOUGHT MY GOODNESS.
DECIDED NOT TO DO IT.
THEN MY PUBLISHER SAID OH YEAH,
I THOUGHT MY GOODNESS.
GO AHEAD, COULD COME OUT FOR THE
THEN MY PUBLISHER SAID OH YEAH,
50th ANNIVERSARY OF THE
GO AHEAD, COULD COME OUT FOR THE
KENNEDY ASSASSINATION.
50th ANNIVERSARY OF THE
THAT MADE ME A LITTLE UNEASY BUT
KENNEDY ASSASSINATION.
I THOUGHT I'LL GO AHEAD AND DO
THAT MADE ME A LITTLE UNEASY BUT
IT.
I THOUGHT I'LL GO AHEAD AND DO
I MEAN THERE'S SCADS AND SCADS
IT.
OF BOOKS.
I MEAN THERE'S SCADS AND SCADS
MINE MAY BE THE ONLY BOOK THAT'S
OF BOOKS.
BEEN WRITTEN ABOUT THE KENNEDY
MINE MAY BE THE ONLY BOOK THAT'S
ASSASSINATION THAT'S NOT ABOUT A
BEEN WRITTEN ABOUT THE KENNEDY
CONSPIRACY THEORY OF SOME KIND.
ASSASSINATION THAT'S NOT ABOUT A
THERE'S NO CONSPIRACY IN MINE.
CONSPIRACY THEORY OF SOME KIND.
>> YOU DO REFER TO IT.
THERE'S NO CONSPIRACY IN MINE.
I REFER TO IT IN PASSING.
>> YOU DO REFER TO IT.
BUT WHAT REALLY SURPRISED ME
I REFER TO IT IN PASSING.
JUDY IS 50 YEARS LATER, IT IS
BUT WHAT REALLY SURPRISED ME
FOR SOME PEOPLE STILL A FRESH
JUDY IS 50 YEARS LATER, IT IS
EVENT.
FOR SOME PEOPLE STILL A FRESH
>>Woodruff: AND WE ALL REMEMBER
EVENT.
WHERE WE WERE THAT DAY.
>>Woodruff: AND WE ALL REMEMBER
>> ABSOLUTELY.
WHERE WE WERE THAT DAY.
ABSOLUTELY.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> JIM LEHRER, THE BOOKER IS TOP
ABSOLUTELY.
DOWN, THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION.
>> JIM LEHRER, THE BOOKER IS TOP
COME BACK AND SEE US MORE.
DOWN, THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION.
>> YES MA'AM, WILL DO.
COME BACK AND SEE US MORE.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
>> YES MA'AM, WILL DO.
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
SENATORS SUSPENDED TALKS ON
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
ENDING THE SHUTDOWN AND AVERTING
SENATORS SUSPENDED TALKS ON
DEFAULT AFTER HOUSE REPUBLICANS
ENDING THE SHUTDOWN AND AVERTING
INSISTED ANEW ON CHANGES IN THE
DEFAULT AFTER HOUSE REPUBLICANS
HEALTH CARE LAW.
INSISTED ANEW ON CHANGES IN THE
THE DEBT RATING AGENCY FITCH
HEALTH CARE LAW.
WARNED IT MIGHT LOWER THE U.S.
THE DEBT RATING AGENCY FITCH
GOVERNMENT'S TRIPLE A CREDIT
WARNED IT MIGHT LOWER THE U.S.
RATING.
GOVERNMENT'S TRIPLE A CREDIT
THE SUPREME COURT AGAIN TOOK
RATING.
UP THE ISSUE OF AFFIRMATIVE
THE SUPREME COURT AGAIN TOOK
ACTION AT PUBLICLY FUNDED
UP THE ISSUE OF AFFIRMATIVE
>> Woodruff: ONLINE, THERE ARE
ACTION AT PUBLICLY FUNDED
TELL-TALE SIGNS THAT THE
>> Woodruff: ONLINE, THERE ARE
HEADHUNTER HELPING YOU FIND A
TELL-TALE SIGNS THAT THE
JOB HAS DONE HIS HOMEWORK AND IS
HEADHUNTER HELPING YOU FIND A
THE RIGHT FIT FOR YOU.
JOB HAS DONE HIS HOMEWORK AND IS
FIND OUT WHAT THEY ARE FROM OUR
THE RIGHT FIT FOR YOU.
RESIDENT JOBS EXPERT.
FIND OUT WHAT THEY ARE FROM OUR
THAT'S ON OUR MAKING SENSE PAGE.
RESIDENT JOBS EXPERT.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
THAT'S ON OUR MAKING SENSE PAGE.
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
ON WEDNESDAY, THE LATEST ON
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
EFFORTS TO BREAK THE STALEMATE
ON WEDNESDAY, THE LATEST ON
ON CAPITOL HILL, AND AN
EFFORTS TO BREAK THE STALEMATE
INTERVIEW WITH ITALY'S PRIME
ON CAPITOL HILL, AND AN
MINISTER.
INTERVIEW WITH ITALY'S PRIME
I'M GWEN IFILL.
MINISTER.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
I'M GWEN IFILL.
WOODRUFF.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
WOODRUFF.
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU, AND GOOD
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NIGHT.